Stardate 50485.2.
Captain's Log,
a planet near the Badlands
I've come to Marva IV,
with an informer
to rendezvous
who claims to have information
on the whereabouts
and former Starfleet officer,
of the Maquis leader
Michael Eddington.
( electrical crackling )
Looking for a friend of mine.
His name is Cing'ta.
( whispering ):
Cing'ta?
Throw it
on the ground.
( weapon thuds to ground )
Turn around.
Eddington.
Hello, Captain.
won't be joining us.
Mr. Cing'ta
on the way to this rendezvous.
His shuttle had an accident
Is he dead?
You just don't
understand
the Maquis, do you, Captain?
We're not killers.
Mr. Cing'ta's accident
has marooned him
on a particularly nasty planet
in the Badlands,
he's very much alive.
but I assure you
How merciful.
You condemned him
to a slow death.
It's more than he deserved.
to sell us out to you.
He was going
He betrayed us.
Now there's a subject
you know a lot about.
You've been on my tail
for eight months,
and now that we're face to face,
that's all you have
to say to me?
at your court-martial.
I will say the rest
Tell me, Captain.
that bothers you more--
What is it
the fact that I left Starfleet
to fight for a higher cause
or the fact that it happened
on your watch?
You didn't "leave" Starfleet.
I wouldn't be here.
If you had,
You betrayed Starfleet.
You used your position
as Security Chief
information about us,
to feed the Maquis
and at the same time,
you misled us
with false information
about them.
There is a word for that--
treason.
Look out there.
Those people-- they were
colonists on Salva II.
They had farms
and shops and homes
and schools.
the Federation signed a treaty
And then one day,
and handed their world
over to the Cardassians--
just like that.
They made these people
refugees overnight.
It's not that simple
and you know it.
These people don't have
to live here like this.
We've offered them resettlement.
They don't want to be resettled.
to the lives they built.
They want to go home
How would you feel
if the Federation gave
your father's home
to the Cardassians?
Federation policy with--
I'm not here to debate
I didn't tell you
to turn around.
Look at them, Captain.
just like you and me,
They're humans,
and Starfleet took
everything away from them.
Remember that the next time
you put on that uniform.
and you're on the wrong side.
There's a war out there
You know what I see out there,
Mr. Eddington?
I see victims,
but not of Cardassia
or the Federation.
Victims of you--
the Maquis.
You sold these people
on the dream
that one day they could go back
to those farms and schools
and homes,
but you know they never can,
and the longer you keep
that hope alive,
the longer these people
will suffer.
Go ahead, shoot me.
take you up on that.
Someday, I may
For now, let me leave you
with one piece of advice.
Don't come after me.
You'll regret it.
Sisko to Defiant.
Eddington just beamed out.
Trace his transporter signal.
We've got it, Captain.
KIRA:
He's on a Maquis raider.
and heading out of the system.
They're breaking orbit
and lay in a pursuit course.
Beam me aboard
All hands to battle stations.
Aye, sir.
He's headed for the
Badlands, all right.
Course is zero mark 213.
Commander?
Changing course now
to zero mark 213.
Maximum warp.
We're on his tail,
Captain.
How long until we're
in firing range?
22 minutes.
Not good enough.
Major?
He'll reach the plasma fields
before we're in range.
two minutes
We need some help.
of the Starship Malinche?
What's the position
They're on patrol in the DMZ,
near the Gamma 7 outpost.
Hmm. Perfect.
holocommunicator ready?
Is the new
Oh, the Chief's had it on line
for six hours now.
I think he's eager for someone
to give it a try.
Always like to please the Chief.
Open a channel
to Captain Sanders
on the Malinche.
Are you receiving
my image, Captain?
Yes, and you?
You appear to be sitting
on my bridge.
It may take me a while
to get used to this.
I'm not fond
of uninvited guests.
to overstay my welcome,
I'll try not
but at the moment
I need your help.
of a Maquis raider
We're in pursuit
headed for the Badlands.
Can you intercept?
You seem pretty eager, Captain.
What did this Maquis raider do?
It's not what they did.
It's who's in command--
Michael Eddington.
Everyone's favorite traitor.
Ah.
Captain, if you don't mind--
You want him in your brig.
We'll cut him off.
You can grab him.
Sanders out.
KIRA:
The Malinche is
moving to intercept.
Prepare to target
the Maquis ship.
I want to disable them,
but I want them alive.
Understood.
Send a security
detachment
to the transporter room.
Have them prepare to--
Captain, Eddington's
dropped out of warp.
Go to impulse.
Raise shields.
What is he doing?
He's changed course.
Now he's headed
directly for us.
WORF:
He has locked
his weapons on us.
He's no match
for the Defiant.
Is this some kind
of suicide run?
He's up to something.
Not Eddington.
Let's not give him a chance
to make his move.
fire phasers.
Mr. Worf,
( alarms beeping )
Report.
We've got a massive
computer failure.
Every computer system is down...
and all the backups.
We're losing control over...
everything.
Weapons, navigation,
helm, propulsion...
Bridge to Engine Room.
Commander,
get down there.
Find out
what's going on.
Try to route the auxiliary
controls through the--
Before you waste
a lot of time
running around
trying to restore
computer control,
let me save you some trouble.
You can't.
You'll find that your memory
cores are completely wiped
and will have to be
reprogrammed
from scratch.
These work remarkably well.
Glad we were able
to procure one.
in the Defiant's computers.
You left a cascade virus
Sounds simple, doesn't it?
it took a great deal of time
But I assure you
that wouldn't be detected
to devise one
by Odo or Chief O'Brien.
I'm really quite proud of it.
I'll add it to the list
of charges against you.
as you're making a list,
Well, as long
why don't you add this?
( explosions )
You know what your
problem is, Captain?
You've made this personal.
It didn't have to be.
It wasn't with me.
no harsh feelings toward you.
I have no animosity,
I wish I could say the same.
Does it really pay
your ship, your crew,
to risk yourself,
on a personal vendetta?
And would Starfleet approve?
I don't need any lectures
about Starfleet from you.
And no matter what happens
here today,
it's not over between us.
I'm the one in control here,
Captain.
Your ship is defenseless.
I could destroy you right now,
but I won't.
the Maquis aren't killers.
Like I said,
with the Cardassians, not you.
Our quarrel is
and we'll leave you alone.
Leave us alone
( explosion )
Cease fire.
Am I supposed to thank you?
No.
I'm not going to make you
grovel for your life.
I know when to walk away.
Unlike you, Captain,
think about that...
Maybe you should
on your long trip home.
Stardate 50488.2.
Captain's Log,
The Defiant has returned
to the station,
but not under its own power.
The Starship Malinche
had to tow us home.
We've got our work
cut out for us.
Eddington's cascade
virus disabled
every memory circuit
on the Defiant.
We'll have to reload
How long?
and reprogram
the entire database.
Well, if we were
at a shipyard
with a space dock
and a crew--
Two weeks.
We're not.
How long?
And that's working
with three shifts
'round the clock.
Get started.
you can speed things up...
If there's any way
I'll do what I can.
I've removed two similar
cascade viruses
hidden on the station's
main computer.
By transmitting a signal,
Eddington could
have disabled
our entire
defense system.
How long until you've eliminated
all of Eddington's handiwork?
It's a good question.
we found all of them.
I can't guarantee
Eddington
was DS9's
Chief of Starfleet Security
for 18 months.
to infiltrate and compromise
He had the opportunity
every system
on the station.
Then check every system
I intend to.
Sir, have you ever reminded
Starfleet Command
that they stationed
Eddington here
because they didn't trust me?
No.
Please do.
What word do you have
from Starfleet Intelligence?
Two Bolian freighters
have disappeared
near the Badlands.
They believe the Maquis
are responsible.
the freighters carrying?
What were
of selenium and rhodium nitrite.
Several thousand tons
That's not very valuable cargo.
What would they want with it?
is analyzing the possibilities.
Commander Dax
Good. In the meantime,
help Chief O'Brien
get the Defiant back on line.
I want to get out there
as soon as possible.
Aye, sir.
What can I do
for you, Captain?
I don't know quite
how to tell you this,
so I'll just say it.
Starfleet Command
has given me
a new assignment.
to bring in Eddington.
They want me
you've been ordered
Oh, you mean
to help me bring him in,
don't you?
No. Your mission orders
have changed.
Eddington is no longer
your responsibility.
Did they give you a reason?
Well...
you've been after him
for, uh, eight months.
a point on it, but...
Not to put too fine
you haven't gotten the job done.
Look, Captain,
I understand
how you feel.
If one of my officers
had fooled me
the way Eddington
fooled you, I...
I'd take it personally, too.
Bad choice of words.
I didn't mean "fooled."
No, you're exactly right.
I was fooled.
But it won't happen again.
That's not the issue.
Starfleet also believes
that where Eddington
is concerned,
you're vulnerable.
He just knows you
too well, Captain.
for someone he doesn't know
So maybe it's time
to go after him.
Good hunting.
Thank you, Captain.
DAX:
The good news is
Starfleet Intelligence
is making progress
breaking the Maquis
communication codes.
it won't do us any good.
The bad news is,
We're out of the game.
But what the hell,
right?
You win some,
you lose some.
You always had problems
with the "lose some"
part of that.
What can I say,
old man?
In 25 years of duty,
I have never been
taken off an assignment
until now!
Right.
This is about being
taken off the assignment.
It has nothing to do
with a certain
ex-security officer
we both know.
He worked under me
for a year and a half.
I saw him almost every day,
read his reports,
had him to dinner.
I even took him
to a baseball game
in the holosuite once,
and I never saw it!
It's my job to be
a good judge of character,
and what did I do?
Not only did I not see it,
I put him up for a promotion.
He played his hand well.
He played me, all right.
And what is my excuse?
Is he a changeling?
No.
lifetimes of experience? No.
Is he a being with seven
Is he a wormhole alien?
No.
He's just a man, like me...
and he beat me!
( yells )
It's good.
"Good"?
It's good you're working it out
on the bag, Benjamin.
to have to let go of this one.
Because... you're going
Eddington is someone
else's problem now,
to have to live with that.
and you're going
Ops to Captain Sisko.
KIRA:
What is it, Major?
Sir, you'd better get up here.
and it's about Eddington.
There's news
Report.
Eddington just
upped the ante.
He attacked the Cardassian
colony on Veloz Prime
with a biogenic weapon.
What?!
He launched three stratospheric
torpedoes at the planet
and spread cobalt diselenide
throughout the biosphere.
A nerve agent that is
harmless to most humanoids,
but it is deadly
to Cardassians.
WORF:
The Cardassians are
already evacuating.
And Eddington has announced
that the Maquis intend
to reclaim the planet
once they are gone.
What I don't understand
is where the Maquis
got the materials
to make a biogenic weapon.
I do.
I should have seen
it earlier.
The selenium
and the rhodium nitrites
they hijacked,
can be reformulated
and with some work,
synthesized
to produce...
cobalt diselenide.
Where's the Malinche?
On the other side
of the Badlands.
They're headed
for Veloz Prime now
but by the time
they get there...
Eddington will be long gone.
Given the amount
of chemical compounds
Eddington stole,
how many of these weapons
will he be able to make?
Cardassian colony in the DMZ.
Enough to poison every
There must something we can do.
starships near Veloz Prime?
Worf, are there any other
The Malinche is our only
ship in the sector.
So unless
they stop Eddington...
the Maquis
have turned the tide.
There is another ship
in the area.
It's moored at Docking Bay 3.
Defiant.
It's going to be tricky,
Captain.
Only half the systems
are back on line.
And most of those
are not operating
at full capacity.
What about the warp drive?
We can go to warp six,
but the inertial dampers
haven't been fully repaired
so don't expect
a smooth ride.
The weapons are also
on line,
but the targeting scanners
have to be manually
calibrated.
We can shoot, but God knows
what we'll hit.
What about communications?
The Defiant's
com system
and I do mean fried.
is fried--
Well, we still have
our com badges.
I'm afraid not.
They won't work either,
not with all the interference
from the unshielded
EPS conduits.
Well, what do we use?
Cups and a long string?
We'll have to improvise.
O'BRIEN:
Let me introduce you
to your new com system.
Cadet?
reporting as ordered, sir.
Cadet Nog,
Stand easy.
With most of the bridge control
functions off line,
all orders to Engineering
will have to be relayed.
In the interest of clarity,
I thought it best
that those messages be
relayed with one voice.
Mr. Academy here.
I figured you'd
want somebody
who could hear you
is exploding all around you.
while the bridge
Exploding?
We may be going into
a combat situation.
Do you think you're ready
for that, cadet?
Sir. Yes, sir.
Absolutely, sir.
I'm glad to hear it.
Report to the bridge.
Aye, sir.
( quietly ):
"Exploding"?
all the bad news at once, sir.
Let me give you
We have no cloak,
no transporters,
no replicators, and
the stabilizing gyros
are at only 50 percent.
So don't ask for any sharp turns
unless you want to end up
doing barrel rolls.
That could be fun.
Do you have any
good news, Chief?
I installed works perfectly.
The new holocommunicator
Well, let's be thankful
for small favors.
Prepare for departure.
What?
All right, say it.
That I have lost
all perspective,
that I'm turning this
into a vendetta
between me and Eddington,
and that I am putting
the ship, the crew,
and my entire career
at risk,
and if I had
any brains at all,
I'd go back to
my office, sit down,
and read Odo's
crime reports.
I wasn't going
to say that.
But that's what you
were thinking, right?
No.
what I was thinking is...
Actually,
you're becoming more like Curzon
all the time.
I don't know how to take that.
Consider it a compliment.
And the next time I go off
on some wild-eyed adventure,
half-cocked
think back
to this moment,
and be a little more
understanding.
WORF:
Recalibrate phaser banks
one and two.
DAX:
Initialize starboard
and port thrusters.
Captain, Ops has cleared us
for departure.
Very well.
Engine Room, stand
by impulse power.
Engine room, bridge.
Stand by impulse power.
deuterium injection rate.
Stand by to increase
CREWPERSON:
Standing by...
Configure driver coils
for impulse speed.
Processing
configuration.
Set EPS taps at level three.
Ops. Seal the airlock and
release docking clamps.
KIRA:
Close exterior hatches.
Depressurize the airlock.
clear all moorings.
Detach umbilicals,
SISKO:
Thrusters at
station keeping.
Initialize deflector field.
KIRA:
Docking clamps released.
SISKO:
Helm, ease us out.
Port and starboard thrusters
at one-quarter.
Bearing 180 mark zero.
Distance from docking ring:
50 meters.
Sixty.
Seventy.
Eighty.
Bring us about, old man.
DAX:
Hard to port.
Ten degrees pitch.
Minimal power to aft thrusters.
Let the momentum
bring us around.
Hold at five degrees pitch.
We're coming around
too fast.
I see it.
Ease off on the
port thrusters.
Pitch back to zero degrees.
Pulse starboard thrusters,
point-five-second bursts.
helm control is sluggish.
Engine Room,
Realign the navigational gyros.
navigational gyros.
...Realign
two second burst.
Port thruster,
DAX:
Double pulse port thruster.
I hope you see that pylon.
Helm,
pitch up 16 degrees.
Bow thrusters,
Full power to port thrusters.
Half roll... now.
Engine room.
One-quarter impulse power.
Engine room, bridge.
One-quarter
impulse power.
Helm, lay in a course
for the Badlands.
stand by for warp speed.
Engine room,
Set intermix
to point zero-one.
Initialize warp
chamber on my mark.
Three, two, one.
Mark.
Warp one, sir.
increase speed to warp six
Engine room,
as soon as possible.
...to warp six
Engine room reports
Sir
we could go to warp seven.
Well done, people.
we should start running
Mr. Worf, I think
battle drills.
Aye, sir.
Captain's Log, supplemental.
After completing a series
of readiness drills,
we've entered the plasma fields
of the Badlands,
and begun our search
for Eddington.
Steady as she goes.
Watch those gyros.
WORF:
Check the status of torpedoes
three and four.
We have an energy variance
on the plasma warheads.
Transfer power
from the...
still not functioning.
Forward scanners are
KIRA:
those field stabilizers?
Engine room, where are
Engine room, bridge.
Where are those
field stabilizers?
Major, engine room
reports field stabilizers
should be on line
in 15 minutes.
Oh, I've got something.
It's a small neutrino signature,
bearing...
218 mark 135.
approximately 900 kilometers.
Distance...
It's moving.
It's a Maquis raider.
Helm, set
intercept course.
Engine room,
three-quarter impulse.
NOG:
from the Maquis raider.
Incoming transmission
KIRA:
It's Eddington.
Put him through.
Well, well, Mr. Eddington.
You just couldn't resist
the temptation
could you, Captain?
to come after me,
I like to finish what I start.
Well, I'm afraid you're going
to be disappointed...
You won't get me, Captain.
again.
a consolation prize for you.
But I do have
Actually, it's more
of a gift.
KIRA:
Incoming transmission.
Sending over a document.
It's a book.
One of my favorites.
Les Misérables.
Thank you, but I've read it.
Recently?
If not, you should
read it again.
Pay close attention
of Inspector Javert--
to the character
the French policeman who spends
20 years chasing a man
for stealing a loaf of bread.
Sound like anyone you know?
Why don't you beam over
and we'll discuss it?
on the Maquis ship.
Captain, closing
700 kilometers.
Ready weapons.
Phaser banks charged.
Lock target.
WORF:
Locked.
SISKO:
It's over, Eddington.
Why don't you surrender
your vessel
and prepare to be boarded?
but I have other plans.
It's a tempting offer,
Enjoy the book.
( console beeping )
Sir, the neutrino readings
are dissipating.
It's not a ship.
It's an unmanned probe,
set to transmit
a false warp signature.
He wanted to lure us here.
Why?
outside the plasma fields.
He's up to something--
Helm, bring us about.
Get us out of here.
NOG:
Engine Room, Bridge...
Engines at full impulse.
Full thrusters.
Hard to port.
DAX:
Course 180 mark zero.
Sir, Chief O'Brien
doesn't recommend
increasing velocity
through the plasma fields.
Objection noted.
Now get me more speed.
Engine room, bridge.
More speed.
a distress signal.
Sir, picking up
It's the Starship Malinche.
They've been ambushed
by the Maquis.
It's dead in space.
How can we help you, Captain?
Our warp core matrix
compositor is fused.
Our navigational systems
are disabled.
some micro-power relays,
If you could spare
we should have
the engines
back on line
in a day or two.
Engine room, beam a damage
control team to the Malinche.
Tell them to take along
a dozen micro-power relays.
Engine room...
from a Cardassian freighter.
We got a distress signal
They'd just been attacked
by the Maquis.
Suffered some casualties.
what we were being told,
Our sensors confirmed
but when we lowered the shields
to transport some
of the wounded...
The sensor readings
had been faked.
There were no Cardassians
on that freighter.
with a focused particle beam
The Maquis had rigged it
through our gyro shielding,
that punched
and we lost helm control.
And by the time we got
back on our feet again,
came out of the plasma field.
three Maquis raiders
Well...
it seems I couldn't get the job
done either, Captain.
It's not over.
be going after him.
I figured you'd
that might be useful to you.
We have something
from one of Eddington's raiders.
We intercepted a coded message
Maybe you
can decode it.
Our, uh, computers
are still down.
I appreciate it.
Do me a favor?
Of course.
at his court-martial.
Save me a seat
Count on it.
Good hunting, Captain.
Captain's Log, supplemental.
still not fully operational,
With the Defiant's computers
we're relying on Odo,
back at Deep Space 9
to decipher the Maquis message.
we're combing the DMZ
In the meantime,
in the hopes of a chance
encounter with Eddington,
but with each passing hour,
our hopes are fading.
Sir, incoming transmission.
It's Odo.
Captain.
some good news around here.
Odo, we need
Tell me that you have some.
Possibly.
I've analyzed
the Maquis message.
And?
It appears to be a simple
Breen nursery rhyme.
A heterophonic,
five-line verse.
Quite a catchy one, too.
( music playing )
Well, metrical analysis
What does it mean?
shows an alternating tetrameter
and pentameter structure,
meaningful pattern in the words.
but the computer could find no
They appear to be
just what they are--
together because they rhyme--
nonsensical phrases strung
at least to the Breen.
And the music?
on a Lyxian scale.
It's written
the computer, too.
I ran it through
No meaningful pattern.
So we're nowhere.
Now, I wouldn't say that.
You see, I remembered something
that Eddington once said to me.
something is in plain sight."
"The best place to hide
And since this is
a Breen nursery rhyme...
is using the music as a signal
So you think that Eddington
in the Breen system?
for a rendezvous
Or a Breen settlement
which isn't far from the DMZ.
like the one on Portas V,
The biogenic components of the
weapons Eddington's been using
and very unstable.
are very bulky
They need to be kept
in a large, sophisticated
cold-storage unit.
And if anyone knows how to keep
things cold, it's the Breen.
Thank you, Odo.
Captain.
do we have a series
Mr. Worf,
of sensor relays near Portas V?
Yes, sir.
Two class-5 intelligence drones.
Pull their sensor logs.
visiting the Breen system.
I want to see who's been
Captain's Log, supplemental.
has proven accurate.
Odo's hunch
detected a Maquis freighter
Our intelligence drones
entering Portas V
three hours ago.
The freighter was last seen
headed into the Dorvan sector
of the DMZ.
Considering the freighter's
range, velocity and heading,
Eddington's next target is one
of four Cardassian colonies.
But...
these targets
are unlikely.
Their defense systems
were recently upgraded
by the Cardassians.
Hmm.
Eddington isn't looking
for a fight.
That leaves only Quatal
and Panora.
WORF:
Quatal has
a lucrative
mining operation, and
their weapon systems
are in the process
of being upgraded,
but they're not
fully operational.
A tempting target.
Not as tempting as Panora.
The Maquis attacked
them two months ago.
And most of their
defense systems
were severely damaged.
They're almost helpless.
And there are constant
ion storms in that system--
good places to hide
if you want to mount
a surprise attack.
A tactic Eddington knows well.
Panora is a more logical
target than Quatal.
Then Eddington will attack
Quatal.
WORF:
Sir?
He likes being unpredictable.
Approaching Quatal Prime.
Slow to impulse power.
Full scan.
KIRA:
Activate parabolic
sensor arrays.
Initiate lateral scanners.
We're too late, Captain.
Eddington's detonated
his weapon.
is already spreading
The nerve agent
through the planet's atmosphere.
Which means the
Cardassians don't have
much time to get away.
Eddington's always
one step ahead of us.
Maybe not this time.
I'm reading residual
neutrino levels.
Looks like one,
maybe two Maquis raiders
behind the fourth moon.
They're on the run.
Go after them.
Full impulse.
Engine room, bridge.
On screen.
Shields up.
Charge phaser banks.
CREWPERSON:
Aye, sir.
15 seconds.
How long to intercept?
SISKO:
Prepare to
lock targets.
Targeting sequence on...
WORF:
Hard to port.
SISKO:
Stick with this one, old man.
They've locked phasers on us.
Power to forward shields.
Forward shields, on line.
DAX:
Restabilize port and...
Lock target.
Targeting scanners...
synchronized.
Fire!
Helm, bring us about.
SISKO:
One more to go.
Sir, this one's making
another run for the planet.
I don't get it-- they've
already poisoned the atmosphere.
More speed.
Engine room, bridge.
on one of the transport ships
They've locked phasers
evacuating the Cardassians.
They've disabled the transport.
It's losing power.
It's going down.
Can we beam
the crew off?
We're out
of transporter range.
Incoming transmission.
Well, Javert...
let's see how deep your
obsession with me is.
You've got me.
I can't outrun
or outfight
the Defiant, but...
you'll have to pay a price--
if you come after me,
all those helpless Cardassians
you'll have to let
spiral down to their deaths.
The choice is yours.
Two minutes to impact.
How long
do they have?
Not much time.
EDDINGTON:
Probably take you
at least a minute
to get back to the planet.
They're just Cardassians.
Helm, bring us about.
Prepare to engage tractor beam.
WORF:
Initializing tractor beam.
Aligning induction field.
CREWPERSON:
Alignment complete.
We've towed
the transport ship
out of the planet's
gravitational pull.
Once our repair team
is back on board,
release the tractor beam.
The Cardassians can
limp their way home
in a day or two.
Les Misérables?
You know it?
I can't stand Victor Hugo.
I tried reading
The Hunchback of Notre Dame,
but I couldn't
get through it.
It was so melodramatic,
and his heroines are
so two-dimensional.
Eddington compares me
to one of the characters--
Inspector Javert--
a policeman who
relentlessly pursues
a man named Valjean.
Guilty of
a trivial offense.
And in the end,
Javert's own inflexibility
destroys him.
He commits suicide.
You can't believe
that description fits you.
Eddington is just trying
to... get under your skin.
He did that eight months ago.
What strikes me about this book
is that Eddington said that
it's one of his favorites.
There's no accounting for taste.
Oh, let's think about it.
A Starfleet security officer
is fascinated
French melodrama, and now,
by a 19th-century
he's a leader
of the Maquis--
a resistance group
against the "evil" Cardassians.
fighting the noble battle
living out his own fantasy.
It sounds like he's
Mm-hmm.
Exactly.
And you know what?
Les Misérables isn't
about the policeman.
It's about Valjean--
the victim
of a monstrous
injustice,
who spends his entire
life helping people.
Making noble sacrifices
for others.
That's how Eddington
sees himself.
He's Valjean.
He's Robin Hood.
He's a romantic,
dashing figure,
against insurmountable odds.
fighting the good fight
of Michael Eddington.
The secret life
How does it help us?
Well, Eddington is the hero
of his own story.
That makes me the villain.
that every hero wants to do?
And what is it
Kill the bad guy.
Ah, that's
part of it.
when they have to.
Heroes only kill
Eddington could have killed me
back at the refugee camp,
or when he disabled
the Defiant,
the villain creates a situation
but in the best melodramas,
where the hero is forced
to sacrifice himself
for the people, for the cause--
one final, grand gesture.
What are you getting at,
Benjamin?
for me to become the villain.
I think it's time
Commander.
Prepare two
quantum torpedoes.
Have Engineering
attach a cargo pod
with 200 kilograms
of trilithium
to each torpedo.
Yes, sir, but...
But what?
The extra mass
of a cargo pod
will make the torpedo
less effective.
Maquis raiders are small
and maneuverable.
I'm not planning to fire
at any ships, Mr. Worf.
Major, what's the nearest
Maquis colony?
Less than an hour away.
Solosos III.
Helm, set a course
for Solosos III.
Major, I want
you to send
the following message on
all Maquis frequencies.
of the Maquis resistance.
"To all the members
"This is Captain Sisko
of the USS Defiant.
"In response to the Maquis' use
of biogenic weapons
"in their
recent attacks,
"I am about to take
the following action.
"In exactly one hour,
two quantum torpedoes
I will detonate
"that will scatter trilithium
resin into the atmosphere
"of Solosos III.
"I thereby will make
the planet uninhabitable
for the next 50 years.
"to all human life
I suggest evacuation plans
begin immediately."
waiting for, people?
What are you
Carry out your orders.
Set torpedo targets
to 50 kilometers
CREWPERSON:
Aye, sir.
above ground level.
Ready, Captain.
Lock.
Time?
One minute left.
And still no transport
ship activity
or any other sign
they're beginning to evacuate.
Commander Worf,
prepare to fire torpedoes
on my mark.
on torpedoes one and two.
Detach safeties
Incoming transmission.
It's Eddington.
What are you really
up to, Javert?
Do you expect me
to believe
that a decorated
Starfleet officer--
the pride of the service--
is going to poison
an entire planet?
what I'm going to do.
That's exactly
You're bluffing.
Am I?
Commander, launch torpedoes.
Commander, I said
launch torpedoes.
Aye, sir.
KIRA:
The trilithium resin
is dissipating
throughout the biosphere.
The Maquis are scrambling
their transport ships.
They're starting
to evacuate.
Do you realize what you've done?
SISKO:
I've only just begun.
every Maquis colony in the DMZ.
I'm going to eliminate
hundreds of thousands of people
You're talking about turning
That's right.
into homeless refugees.
When you attacked the Malinche,
you proved one thing--
that the Maquis have become
an intolerable threat
of the Federation,
to the security
to eliminate that threat.
and I am going
But think about those people
you saw in the caves,
They didn't attack the Malinche.
huddled and starving.
You should have thought
about that
a Federation starship.
before you attacked
for Tracken II, warp six.
Helm, lay in a course
two more torpedoes.
Commander, prepare
Engine room, bridge.
Set course 050 mark 179.
Unlock safeties on
torpedoes three and four.
what's happening to you?
Can't you see
You're going against everything
you claim to believe in.
And for what?
To satisfy a personal vendetta?
You betrayed your uniform!
And you're betraying yours,
right now.
you don't even realize it.
The sad part is,
I feel sorry for you, Captain.
This obsession with me--
look what it's cost you.
Shut that thing off.
Major!
Wait!
Commander Worf, prepare to
launch torpedoes.
If...
you call off your attack,
all our biogenic weapons.
I'll turn over
Not enough.
( sighs )
All right, Javert.
I'll give you what you want.
Me.
Captain's Log, supplemental.
in the DMZ are underway.
Resettlement efforts
and Maquis colonists
The Cardassian
to abandon their homes
who were forced
will make new lives
for themselves
their counterparts evacuated.
on the planets
The balance in the region
will be restored,
remains far from stable.
though the situation
Captain. Commander.
Welcome home.
It's good to be back.
I gather your trip
was productive.
Constable.
ODO:
This way.
Benjamin, I'm curious.
Your plan to poison
the Maquis planets--
you didn't clear it
with Starfleet first, did you?
I knew I'd forgotten
to do something.
Ah. Big gamble.
That's what it takes
to be a good villain.
You know, sometimes I like it
when the bad guy wins.